>> Jason Lengstorf: At this point,
I wanna jump into a real site.
I wanna jump into a working site.
So we're going to open
up the Honkify site.
And that will already
be installed in your,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Code editor here, so
we can just close up the packages.
We're gonna be working in Honkify.
So just take a look at it.
It's got an index.mdx, so
it's already using mdx.
And let's just boot it up and
take a look, yeah?
So we do yarn workspace honkify develop
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, so
we've got a marketing page for
our library.
This is a very important, very useful
JavaScript library that I would encourage
all of you to install today.
What it does is when you turn it on,
it will make sure that your browser
honks instead of following links.
I wanna add documentation to this site.
So I've built a library.
I've got a homepage.
Everybody loves it, everybody wants to
use it, but we haven't added docs yet.
So I don't wanna have to
reinvent docs from scratch.
I wanna install a theme.
So what I can do is I can
just install this theme.
So we're going to stop the server.
And I will install the theme using
yarn workspace honkify add.
And then because we're installing a local
theme, I'm gonna put it in quotes,
"gatsby-theme-docs@*".
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, all good.
Then I'm going to actually
configure it in my gatsby config.
And so to do that,
I'm just gonna go down and
we'll stick it right above
gatsby plugin theme UI.
Order shouldn't matter here.
I didn't test it.
And I'm not gonna tempt fate.
So let's put it where I put it last time.
We're going to install it here.
We're going to set some options on
the theme this time because we already
have a homepage, right?
So we want our docs to live at slash docs,
not at like the root of the site.
So I'm gonna set a base path of docs.
And I'm gonna deal with
with a leading slash there.
And then because we already
have MDX installed,
I'm gonna say that I do
wanna use external MDX.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And once that is
installed, what I can do is let's see.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Let's just
start it up and see how it goes.
So yarn workspace honkify develop.
And in honkify, we've already got.
To avoid having to
create a bunch of files,
I just created some empty docs
files here for us to work with.
And looks like something broke.
>> Jason Lengstorf: I missed a comma.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Try that one
more time with the comma in place.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay,
the site's running.
>> Jason Lengstorf: No errors.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, and so
if we come out here and we look,
nothing is visibly changed, but
what happens if I go to Docs?
And I didn't create an index page.
So let's go to doc/installation.
Okay, so our theme works,
but it's not quite right.
It's picking up the colors but
it's not picking up the theme.
So we're gonna use component shadowing
to tell the Docs theme to use
the layout from honkify.
So let's hop in here and
in the source folder,
I'm going to create a new file and
it's gonna live in gatsby-theme-docs.
And once we go into gatsby-theme-docs,
again,
what we're doing when you're component
shadowing is by targeting this folder,
we get access to the full source
folder inside of the theme.
So we don't include the source.
We just go straight into
whatever's in there.
So we wanna get at the components.
And I wanna change layout.js.
So now, what will happen is
when I restart the server,
the docs theme is gonna pick up this file.
So if I did it right now, it would fail
because it's not a react component.
So what I'm gonna do instead is
I'm gonna import layout from,
let's get up the tree here, and
I'm gonna get components/layout.
And then I'm going to
export default layout.
So effectively what I've
just done is I've said, hey,
docs theme,
use this layout component instead.
And so it will replace that for us.
So let's make that happen.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
upon getting started up,
what we should see when we
refresh the page is that now,
our docs still work but
they've picked up the layer from our site.
So without having to make any
changes to the theme itself,
our theme files now look like
they belong on this site.
And when we move around, it looks
like it's all part of the same site.
So this is where we start to
see the power of gatsby themes.
We did, what eight lines of code and
we've got a fully functional doc section
on the site now that we built it.
That's a really powerful model that gives
us a lot of power when we get into it.
The next thing that we wanna do is I want
to be able to use this button, right?
We've got this button I wanna be able
to use that in a live editable region.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to create a scope.js and
now we're gonna overriding that
scope.js inside of the theme.
And I can import the button
from components/button.
And then I'm gonna export default.
And I just want the button
to be available.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And to test this,
let's stop and restart.
And I'm gonna go into the docs and
let's add in an editable block.
So we're gonna setup jsx,
make it react-live and
I want to export a function.
So I'm gonna write a custom
click handler for it.
And that will just be that
alert that we did before.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
we will return a fragment
that's got a heading.
And then we will use our button.
So we're not importing the button,
we already put it in the scope.
That means that we can use it.
So I'm gonna set up some text.
Our text is gonna be honk.
And the onClick is going to be our handle
click function that we just wrote.
Okay, so, assuming all has gone well,
when I save this, get back out.
I forgot to close my fragment.
But we can see here,
it caught that for us.
It told us that we screwed it up, right?
So now, once I close this up,
come back out here.
There we go.
Okay, so it clicks.
And what's even more fun is if we
activate honkify, [SOUND] it works.
It interacts with the page, right?
So this is a really, really nice way
to set up interactive examples and
allow people to play so that they can see
how things work in real time and edit.
And I think the last thing that
we need to do, [SOUND] whoops.
[LAUGH] Is we just need
to add a link to it.
So if we go into our pages, we can just
duplicate this and say, read the docs.
And we'll just skip right
through to that installation.
So now on our homepage,
we've got a link to the docs.
And in what, took like five, ten minutes.
We just set up an entirely new doc section
on an existing site that looks like it
belongs on this site.
And so I think this is where you start
to see the power of gatsby themes and
why there's such a powerful abstraction.
Cuz we did all of that pain of setting
up the config and diving through
the GraphQL Schema customization, and
making sure that the docs folders created.
All that work, and the end result is we
get plug-and-play drop in stuff like this.
It's really really nice experience when
you start using the theme as opposed to
building it.
So let's save our work.
And then, I wanna see how it feels to
create a new site using the theme.
Where am I going, here we are.
So we're gonna do a git add all.
Check the status.
And we've got our modified installation
instructions, we set up the theme,
installed the theme, shadowed the layout
and the scope, and updated the home page.
So let's commit
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay,
let's get that pushed up.